Now that we know what shallow copying is in the context of the copy constructor let's look at deep copy
with a deep copy.
We don't just simply copy the pointer instead we copy the data pointed to by the pointer.
This usually means that we have to allocate storage for the copy data and then perform the copy with
a deep copy.
Each object will have a pointer to unique storage in the heap and both areas will contain the same data.
You always want to use a copy constructor that does a deep copy when you have Rossie post post pointers.
Let's look at the class we use in this example.
It's exactly the class we use for the shallow copy.
Except that I named this class deep to be clear.
We have a raw C++ pointer that points to a single integer and here's the class will use this class has
a constructor that expects an integer a copy constructor and a destructor is before.
And let's see how we implemented these methods.
Here's the constructor and you can see that this code is exactly the same as we implemented Inshalla.
After all we want to create those objects the same way the constructor allocates storage for the integer
and then stores the past in integer D into where that data pointers pointing since we allocated the
storage dynamically then we have to release it in the destructor.
So do that now.
Here's the code for the destructor.
Again it frees the data that was allocated by the constructor and displays a message to the console.
Now this is where the change comes in it's with the copy constructor.
Let's see the difference.
So here's the copy constructor and this is where things change from the copy constructor we saw previously
that does a shallow copy.
Here we don't simply copy the pointer.
Instead we allocate storage for the copy of what we're pointing to and then copy the data itself over
so you can see we're creating a new integer and then were copying what the source data pointers pointed
to which is an integer into our newly created area on the heap and we're also displaying a message.
Now we have an exact unique copy of the original storage in each object since we can also delegate object
construction from a copy constructor to another constructor within the same class.
We can do that as follows.
Notice that we're delegating to the constructor that expects an integer and the integer repassing in
is the one pointed to by data.
Now we've made a deep copy of that data pointer and both source and the newly created object each have
an exact unique copy of the original heap storage.
So now we'll have that function display db that expects a deep object by value.
We make a copy yes use it and then when ESC goes out of scope we call the destructor which frees up
the allocated storage.
In this case there is no problem since the allocated storage pointed to by the data point to that S
is unique to S..
And finally here is the main that we use for the shallow example.
Except we're using now with the DB example.
This code will now run correctly.
There won't be any crashes and no problems because the copy constructor is doing a DB copy and we're
responsibly handling memory.
Now let's head over to the idea and walk through this example.
Now I'll drought again exactly what's happening with the deep copy.
Ok so I'm back in the IDM in the section 13 workspace and then the deep copy project.
In this case we're using a class called deep.
It's exactly like the class called Shalah that we used in the last video with the exception of the copy
constructor.
In this case you can see the copy constructor right here on line 26 and it's doing a deep copy by delegating
to our regular constructor.
That's really the only difference is we're not just copying the pointer recopying the data pointed to
by the pointer.
So let's walk through this example using the debugger and let me move the output window over to the
right and right now we're on 9:42.
So we're just about to create object 1.
Now this is just a regular simple instantiation with a constructor here on line 21 so let's step through
it.
We can see now we're on 9:22.
We're creating that integer on the heap and we're storing the 100 into it.
And now we're back.
So object 1 at this point has been created and you can see objects one right here.
You can see data is a pointer to an integer and the integer it's pointing to is 100.
And you can see the address that we're pointing to is Foxtrot 98 so this is where we're at right now.
We've got object 1 right here.
It's got a pointer called data and it's pointing to an integer on the heap that's 100 and its address
is ending with Foxtrot 98.
That's the situation now.
So the next thing we want to do is we want to call display deep display deep is this function right
here again.
This is a regular function not a member function we're passing in a deep object into it by value so
we need to make a copy of it.
So when we're in this function S will be a copy of object 1 which is what we're passing in right here.
In order to get the copy we need to execute the copy constructor.
So let's do that right now.
You can see the control transfers run right here into the copy constructor and then the copy constructor
is going to delegate construction to our regular constructor that just expects a single integer.
And that's what's happening here.
So now we're creating storage and we're copying that data into it.
And now we come back to our kids our copy constructor we display our message and we're back now on 37.
So as has been created as a copy of object.
Now let's take a look at as you can see right up here and you can see we've got a data pointer and pointing
to 100.
So at this point what's really going on is s right here is an object and it's pointing to an integer.
Obviously it's using its data pointer to do that and that integer contains We can see right here contains
100 and it is an address Foxtrot Baker 8.
So we've got two different areas in the heap.
So each one of these is point to a unique area.
This is really with deep copy's all about because what's going to happen in a second is when we finish
this function right here we need to clean up.
S right it's going out of scope.
So the destructor for S is going to get called in is going to free up this area in memory.
It's stop messing with this area.
So when we come back from this function and come back to main object one is still pointing to valid
data.
This is very very different from the example we saw was shallow.
So let's run through this and we're right here you can see we're just about to go out of scope and line
and there it is right there the destructor is being called I'm 9:32 the destructor is going to free
up this object right here which is Foxtrot great right here.
We'll execute that line of code.
My destructor just freed the data and now I'm right back to main on line 45.
So at this point this has been taken off the stack it's all been cleaned up.
And this is the state that we're in right now which is exactly what we expect.
Same is true on line 45 here what we're doing is we're making object to a copy of object 1.
So again we expect the copy constructor to be called here.
So let's walk through this.
There it is there's the call we're going to delegate construction to our regular constructor which happens
here my data gets written over and I'm back now at this point you can see that object 1 and object to
both contain 100 but you can see the addresses that are out there completely different memory addresses
for that hundred.
So in other words object one has a copy of 100 in its own area and object 2 has a copy of 100 in its
own area.
And in this case here on 947 if I set that integer value for object 2 to 1000 and let me do that right
now you can see when I refresh that object tu's data is a thousand objects one data is still 100 again
really different from what we had with the shallow copy since they were both pointing to the same place.
So that's it.
At this point one wine so we free up object 1 and up to two.
And our program completes with no crashes at all.
OK so that gives you a little bit of a perspective with shallow copies and deep copies later on we'll
do this with smart pointers.
But it's really important to understand exactly what's going on with raw pointers first.